NEWS for Fabula
===============

0.7.0
-----

Released on 19 July 2011.

This version comes with new demo game art, taken from the "Whispers of Avalon" 
open source game project. Fabula entities now support horizontal sprite sheets 
for walking animations, including one-column sprite sheets for just a front / 
left / right / back view without animation. The editor now opens a screen of the 
same size as the game screen and supports the SaysEvent. Fabula now features a 
server-side command-line interface - start run_pygame_cli.py to give it a try. 
setup.py has been fixed to finally work with vanilla Python distutils alongside 
cx_Freeze. Fabula source releases will be in ZIP format for the time being since 
tarballs created by distutils preserve symbolic links (see 
http://bugs.python.org/issue12585). Minor fixes, cleanups and documentation 
update.


0.6.0
-----

Released on 14 April 2011.

Fabula now supports rooms larger than the screen in client and editor. Changed 
the underlying rendering architecture to pre-render backgrounds and resize 
bitmaps to fit the size of the room. Moving the mouse to the edges of the window 
triggers horizontal scrolling. Loading large background images in the editor now 
creates a room of an appropriate size. Fabula applications now read options from 
a config file, most prominently the 'fullscreen' option. Minor fixes and 
documentation update.


0.5.0
-----

Released on 6 April 2011.

Logging refactoring, with a lot of cleanups. Fabula now makes use of several log 
levels. PygameEditor now offers a full-fledged Entity editor. The properties 
plane now displays more information. Using the new clickndrag API to prevent 
entity captions from popping up in the wrong places. Refactored plane ordering 
when processing MovesToEvents: entities now correctly overlap each other, 
depending on their vertical position. Action icons now move with the entity that 
has been clicked on. Changed the pathfinding to make entities stop when they can 
not get any closer to their target. Included a default room in the distribution, 
with free game art from Danc (www.lostgarden.com). Documentation update.


0.4.0
-----

Released on 25 March 2011.

Added Entity.blocking and Entity.mobile flags, to be evaluated by the server 
when processing attempt events. Code processing pick up attempts now checks 
whether Entity.mobile is True. Improved pathfinding, preventing entities from 
wandering around when the target is blocked. Minor fixes and documentation 
update.


0.3.0
-----

Released on 23 March 2011.

Removed the action icons from the inventory. Instead, they pop up when 
right-clicking an entity. Refactoring of PygameEntity captions. The inventory 
now features a background image which can also be customised. Changes in the 
display of SaysEvents. Adapted plugins.pygameui to clickndrag API changes. 
Fabula games can now be played in full screen, and pressing ESCAPE will quit the 
game. Several bug fixes in the DefaultGame server plugin and 
PygameUserInterface.


0.2.0
-----

Released on 11 March 2011.

Refactoring of the client-server connection procedure. The User Interface now 
displays a splash screen and then asks the player for a login and connection 
details. Moved all timing and event queueing from client to server. The default 
condition-response game logic now allows for a tuple of response events. The 
logic is now stored in a plain text file. Lots of improvements in the user 
interface, most prominently captions for entities and implementation of entity 
conversation. Improved support for Entity subclasses. Update to the new 
clickndrag API. Docs update and a lot of fixes and enhancements under the hood.


0.1.0
-----

Released on 13. January 2011.

This is the first alpha release and probably only useful for a sneak peek. The 
API is still likely to change. API docs are included, but end user documentation 
is still missing. The included editor and Pygame engine are still work in 
progress.
